Muhammad nazal joins us now sir you're a
member of hamas's political Bureau what
can you tell us about the offer that
Hamas has
received H actually today Hamas have
received a proposal paper issued by
Paris
conference uh we told the mediators that
Hamas will study the proposal in our
political Bureau Which con
consists uh from leadership inside and
outside uh Palestinian
territories and we will discuss this
paper after our discussions with
Egyptians and
Karis in
Cairo because we will travel as soon as
possible after we end our discussions
inside political
of okay are you at this stage able to
outline for us uh the the broad
framework of this
proposal actually it talks about uh
ceasefire but we told
mediators that permanent ceasefire is
our
goal we can't
accept er a ceasefire pose for
humanitarian reasons we want a permanent
ceasefire H secondly we want withdraw
Israeli withdrawal if from Gaza Strip
without Israeli withdrawal we can't also
accept this a new deal or a new
proposal thirdly we want to
allow the humanitarian
aids to enter Gaza Strip because our
people they are
suffering from starving they are
suffering from the
shortage of petrols of water of
electricity so these mean
things what we want from uh the
mediators to do it otherwise we can't
accept this
proposal now the Qatari prime minister
who who's been in Washington uh has
talked about the possibility of of a
phased truce and that this is what would
be put to Qatar so presumably this might
be what you've received a phase truce
meaning that this would go in stages and
it would start with Hamas releasing
women and children uh in exchange for
increased humanitarian Aid is that
something that Hamas might be willing to
consider
you know we don't uh reject any kind of
uh
stages uh but we want H from both sides
to release all
captives ER in Israeli prisoners and the
captives who are with the
resistance movement in Gaza Strip so we
are
looking uh to release all captives from
both sides but of course it needs a
negotiation uh to reach uh to this point
so so this is a further demand then
because you told me three points three
demands this is a further one but my
question is is more around would Hamas
be willing to accept something in phases
if everything that Hamas is asking for
is not proposed and is is not available
and is not on the table at this stage
would Hamas be willing to accept
something in stages so that perhaps um
those goals can be achieved at a later
stage we are we are ready uh to stop the
fighting we are
ready ER to release uh the
prisoners I mean the
Israeli
prisoners who who who are
with resistance movement but we need of
course
negotiations to implement this point the
negotiation to implement this point this
is very important point for both sides
so this is what we are looking for it
and this is what Israelis want from us
they want their ER capitals and we are
ready to release all of
them I just want to make sure that I
understand that clearly are you are you
are you or are you not saying that Hamas
could agree under certain conditions for
a pause in the fighting rather than a
permanent end to the fighting given the
right uh circumstances and the right
offer on the
table you know we are looking for a
permanent uh ceasefire
but we can do it in the second stage in
the third stage the very important point
for us to reach to this
permanent uh ceasefire otherwise it
means the battle and the war between us
and the Israeli troops will
continue we want ceas fa permanent ceas
fair and it is useful for both sides for
Israelis and for the people of
Palestine okay but it but that could be
achieved in stages which I think is an
important part of this conversation and
just and and just Before I Let You Go
sir the Qatari prime minister has
described the negotiations as having
made quote good progress would you agree
with that assessment we yes yes we are
ready to achieve this by
stages okay
all right thank you very much Muhammad
nazal a member of hamas's political
Bureau it's good to have you on the
program thank you thank you